 Continental has signed a development agreement with Pyrum Innovations, a Germany-headquartered  specialist in the pyrolysis of end-of-life tires. The collaboration will help expand the recycling of end-of-life  tires through pyrolysis and the recovery of high-quality carbon black (rCB) for the company’s tire  production.  Continental's subsidiary, Reifen-Entsorgungsgesellschaft (REG), will begin supplying end-of-life tires to  Pyrum as early as this month. In the long term, the partners aim is to establish a circular economy concept  for the recycling of end-of-life tires.  Since Pyrum's IPO in 2021, Continental has held a minority stake in the company. Continental’s goal is to recover valuable materials and high-performance raw materials on an industrial  scale in the future for tire production and other uses.  Continental's goal is to successively use 100% sustainably produced materials in its tire products by 2050  at the latest.  WHAT'S NEW IN TIRES  Continental and Pyrum Innovations enter agreement for supply of rCB  (Continental – Hanover, Germany)

Hankook Tire has pilot tested a new driving optimization tool intended to provide data analysis for fleet  operators based on driving habits. The solution was tested with EHWA Air and Travel Agency, a South  Korean travel company, from July 2020 to September 2021, and involved drivers of four regional buses that  travel more than 7,000kms per month.  The solution developed by Hankook is aimed at improving fuel efficiency and extending tire life. The  company collected and analyzed various data with a driving recorder, GPS and tire sensor attached to  vehicles. Hankook monitored data and carried out analysis of each bus driver’s driving habits, such as  speed, rapid acceleration and deceleration, braking and idling. Based on the result, the tire manufacturer  delivered an improvement guide to EHWA Air and Travel Agency for driver training, tire maintenance and  vehicle management.  The data collected by the tire maker revealed that there is more tire wear and fuel usage from increased  braking time and when the engine is left running idly. The biggest difference revealed in the test data was  up to a 20% drop in fuel usage when avoiding frequent braking and engine idling.  In addition, it was observed that tire pressure commonly decreased in the winter season. Due to low  temperatures, air pressure inside a tire which normally is around 120 psi dropped to as low as 96 psi.  Based on this finding, Hankook says it is evident that tire pressure inspection is critical in winter and  checking tire pressure every two months can reduce fuel consumption.  Hankook noted that its optimization solution is beneficial in economic and environmental aspects. Changing  driving habits such as sudden braking and idling can lower operating costs as well as the amount of carbon  dioxide generated, it said.  Hankook fleet study analyzes effect of driving habits on fuel economy and tire wear  (Hankook Tire – Seoul, Korea)

    Hercules Tires, a subsidiary of American Tire Distributors (ATD), has launched the TIS UT1, a co-branded  premium Utility Terrain Vehicle (UTV) and All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) tire with TIS Wheels. The new tire is  designed for consumers who drive off-road, whether for work or recreation, in a variety of terrains, such as  sand, silt, loose rocks, gravel, dirt, and soil.  With an aggressive all-terrain tread pattern, the tire is built for the today's most popular UTV and ATV  vehicles. A balanced void ratio and biting edges on the tread blocks, add to the traction of the eight-ply  rated tire, while the unique dual shoulder design allows consumers to cost effectively customize the look of  their vehicle, offering two styles in one tire, the company said. The TIS UT1 has a new proprietary dual compound, which enables use on rugged terrain. The compound  strengthens the sidewall to help eliminate punctures and other damage while supporting tire longevity,  Hercules said. TIS Wheels is applying its off-road wheel expertise to the UTV/ATV market with two new wheel styles  available in seven finishes at launch. The 558 is a mesh style wheel available in satin black, anthracite  gray, bronze and gloss black with milled accents. The 559 is an aggressive concave 8-spoke design  available in bronze, anthracite gray and satin black.  WHAT'S NEW IN TIRES  Hercules Tires and wheel maker TIS team up on new UTV/ATV tire  (Hercules Tires – Huntersville, NC)

Pirelli has announced another increase in prices on its tires for cars and light trucks sold in the United  States. Taking effect April 11, 2022, the increases will be up to 10%, varying by line and tire size.  The increases are due to changing market conditions, the company said. Members of the Pirelli sales team will contact customers to provide more detailed information about the  changes.  FINANCE  Pirelli to increase prices for car and light truck tires in the US  (Pirelli - Rome, GA)

Toyo Tires has announced it will participate in the Nürburgring 24 Hours race from May 26-29, 2022, and  Nürburgring Endurance Series on March 26, 2022 in Germany with a Toyota GR Supra GT4 and drivers  from Ring Racing.  This year Toyo Tires has signed a partnership agreement with Ring Racing, a car tuner that has been  building racing cars near the Nürburgring for over 10 years. Toyo developed tires for the team’s Toyota  Supra GT4 car. The Nürburgring 24 Hour event is the centerpiece of Toyo’s racing activities in Europe. The tire maker says  it is one of the most demanding endurance races in the world. Consisting of two courses, the F1 Grand Prix  circuit, and the Nordschleife, the Nürburgring is notorious for its challenges. With over 300m elevation  changes and more than 70 corners in every 25km lap, the Eifel circuit presents unique conditions. Due to  the mountain micro climate, drivers in the 24H race can also expect sudden weather changes to complicate  their race strategy.  In preparation for the Nürburgring 24 Hours, the Ring Racing team will drive in the Nürburgring Endurance  Series. As part of its mid-term business plan, Toyo Tires says it will use its R&D center to differentiate its products  and enhance its branding for the European market.  RELATED MATTERS  Toyo Tires to participate in two Nürburgring events  (Toyo Tires - Hyogo, Japan)

    Continental was awarded the highest grade by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the fourth time in a  row, representing the company’s success in implementing measures and strategies to reduce emissions  throughout the supply chain, it said.  The achievement makes Continental among the 8% of companies that have been awarded 2021  leadership status by the international non-profit organization CDP for supplier commitment to climate  change. More than 13,000 companies and organizations worldwide were considered for the rating.  The assessment is based on data provided by the companies on corporate governance and Scope 3  emissions as well as on supply chain management. The CDP pays particular attention to strategies and  measures that help to make environmental risks and emissions measurable along value chains in order to  minimize them.  Continental's approach of working closely with its suppliers to achieve comprehensive improvements by  involving as many stages of the supply chain as possible was recognized by the group.  RELATED MATTERS  Continental among top performers in CPD international sustainability rating  (Continental – Hanover, Germany)

Malaysia’s rubber and rubber products exports reached a record high value of RM71 billion (about $16.9  billion) in 2021, according to the Malaysian Rubber Council (MRC).  The country’s exports increased by 46.3% from RM48.5 billion in 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic  accelerated rubber glove usage. In 2021, latex goods contributed 91.8% to the total rubber products  exports with rubber gloves remaining the leader of the pack. The council said that rubber gloves contributed 88.9% to the total rubber products export at RM54.8 billion,  an increase of 55.4% over the same period in 2020 at RM35.3 billion. This is followed by Industrial Rubber Goods (IRG) with an increase of 40.7% amounting to RM1.3 billion  compared to RM900 million in 2020. Export of tires also contributed to the record-setting year, showing an increase of 30.7% at RM1.7 billion,  compared to RM1.3 billion in 2020. Footwear and general rubber goods recorded an increase of 19.6% and  13% respectively. The US, Europe and Japan were the biggest importers of rubber products from Malaysia, together  accounting for about 50%, the MRC said. In 2021, US imports of Malaysian rubber products increased by  76.5% to RM22.8 billion ($5.4 billion), while imports by Germany grew 57.9% to RM3.79 billion ($900  million). Japan’s imports of Malaysian rubber goods rose by 40.5% to RM3.2 billion ($760 million), imports  by the Netherlands were up 57% at RM1.76 billion ($410 million) and Italy’s imports of Malaysian rubber  goods rose 42.2% to RM1.2 billion ($280 million) as compared to 2020.  Malaysia’s rubber exports reach new highs in 2021, rubber council reports  (Malaysian Rubber Council - Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia)

The Smithers Report   
